Locally contractible initial PR (#1722)
pi-base/data: properties/P000225.md

---
uid: P000225
name: $LC$
aliases:
  - Locally contractible
refs:
  - zb: "0153.52905"
    name: Theory of retracts (Borsuk)
  - zb: "1280.54001"
    name: Geometric aspects of general topology. (Sakai)
  - zb: "1059.54001"
    name: Encyclopedia of general topology
---

Every neighborhood $U$ of any point $x$ contains a neighborhood of $x$ that is contractible in $U$. 

> Equivalently, $X$ is *locally contractible at a point* $x$ for all $x \in X$, in the sense that every neighborhood $U$ of $x$ contains a neighborhood $V$ of $x$ such that the inclusion map $V \hookrightarrow U$ is null-homotopic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$X$ is *locally contractible at the point* $x$ for all $x \in X$,
in the sense that every neighborhood $U$ of $x$ contains a neighborhood (equivalently, an open neighborhood) $V$ of $x$ that is contractible in $U$;
i.e., such that the inclusion map $V \hookrightarrow U$ is null-homotopic.

Equivalently, every neighborhood $U$ of any point $x$ contains a neighborhood (or an open neighborhood) $V$ of $x$
such that the inclusion map $V \hookrightarrow U$ is homotopic to the constant map with value $x$.
```

Reviewer: I don't think it's worth mentioning a reference for those. All the formulations can be seen to be equivalent in a really simple way.  Anyone looking at Fuchs-Viro or Spanier or Rotman and comparing with pi-base will see their formulation included here, and that's good enough. The main thing is having some references for the Borsuk version.  That's my opinion.

Reviewer: But please convince me otherwise.

Author: @prabau That sounds good to me.

> Equivalently, $X$ is locally contractible at each of its points. A space $X$ is *locally contractible at a point* $x \in X$ if every neighborhood $U$ of $x$ contains a neighborhood $V$ of $x$ such that the inclusion map $V \to U$ is null-homotopic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Equivalently, $X$ is *locally contractible at each point* $x$, in the sense that every neighborhood $U$ of $x$ contains a neighborhood $V$ of $x$ such that the inclusion map $V \to U$ is null-homotopic.
```
One thing I did not like about the previous version is that it used "locally contractible" in the first sentence as if the concept was already known, while the terminology also clashes with P223.  The new version is not ideal (a little awkward saying "at each point" vs. at a specific point), but it better specifies in which sense we mean "locally contractible at a point" in this context.  What do you think?

Author: I like it more, but I don't really like introducing a proper name for "locally contractible at each point"; Borsuk does italicize "locally contractible at a point $x_0 \in X$" in his book. How about something like:

>Equivalently, $X$ is *locally contractible at a point* $x$ for all $x \in X$, in the sense that every neighborhood $U$ of $x$ contains a neighborhood $V$ of $x$ such that the inclusion map $V \hookrightarrow U$ is null-homotopic.

Reviewer: Yeah, that would be better.

> This is the standard definition of "locally contractible" in the theory of ANRs. Defined as "locally contractible" on page 28 of {{zb:0153.52905}}, page 347 of {{zb:"1280.54001"}}, and page 341 of {{zb:"1059.54001"}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the standard definition of "locally contractible" in the theory of ANRs, as originally introduced by Borsuk. Defined as *locally contractible* on page 28 of {{zb:0153.52905}}, page 347 of {{zb:1280.54001}}, and page 341 of {{zb:1059.54001}}.
```
I think it's important to mention Borsuk's name here. (The concept was introduced in his Fund. Math. 1932 paper.)

Also removed the double quotes in the zb refs, which were breaking things.
